=head1 Patching Module::Build in bleadperl

=head2 Prerequisites

These instructions assume you have already cloned the perl git 
repository and have checked out the blead branch.  The blead branch should
be clean of extraneous files

  $ cd ~/git
  $ git clone git://perl5.git.perl.org/perl.git
  $ git checkout blead
  $ git clean -dxf

The rest of the instructions assume your perl git repo is ~/git/perl

=head2 Creating a perl branch with changes

Start in the Module-Build directory.  This would be the distdir left
behind right after publishing a new release, or could be an unpacked 
tarball from CPAN.

  $ cd Module-Build-0.33_02

Run the add-packages.pl program from ~/git/perl/Porting to create a 
new git branch and copy in Module::Build files.  Be sure to exclude
files with the '-e' flag:

  $ perl ~/git/perl/Porting/add-package.pl -v -r ~/git/perl \
        -e 'par\.t|signature\.t'

There may be prompts about deleting read-only files. These are the excluded
files.  (add-packages.pl does a recursive copy, then deletes excluded files 
from the destination.  Why it does so is a mystery.)  Say "yes" to deleting
these files.

Module::Build::ConfigData is created during build, so must be generated and
copied by hand:

  $ perl Build.PL
  $ Build
  $ cp blib/lib/Module/Build/ConfigData.pm ~/git/perl/lib/Module/Build/

=head2 Verifying and editing the branch

After add-packages.pl finishes, ~/git/perl will be on the new branch. Verify
that and see what changes have been made:

  $ git branch
  $ git status

ConfigData.pm will be marked modified, so add it to the index:

  $ git add lib/Module/Build/ConfigData.pm

If there are other changes made but not staged, examine them individually and
determine if they should be staged or if an error occurred.

If any files are being removed, be sure to edit Perl's MANIFEST file and stage
it to be committed.

  $ vim MANIFEST
  $ git add MANIFEST

Next, modify the Module::Build section of Porting/Maintainers.pl to indicate
the distribution file on which the patch is based.  Note the version that 
is being replaced -- you'll need this later when creating the commit message.
Update any other metadata necessary, then add this file to the index.

  $ vim Porting/Maintainers.pl
  $ git add Porting/Maintainers.pl

=head2 Commiting the branch

Commit the branch and use the editor to create a commit message.  The
first line should be like this: "Update Module::Build to 0.33_02".  (Use
the correct version, of course.)  The rest of the file should contain
an excerpt from the Changes file since the last version in blead (i.e.
the old version number in Porting/Maintainers.pl)

  $ git commit

  ### In editor ###
  Update Module::Build to 0.33_02

  0.33_02 - Mon Jun 15 12:23:55 EDT 2009

  Bug-fixes:
  - Fixed tests for bleadperl
  
  0.33_01 - Sat Jun 13 20:24:42 EDT 2009

  [... rest of Changes ...]

=head2 Testing the branch

Build and test Perl to confirm the changes don't break anything.  This
takes a while, but saves embarassment posting a buggy patch to perl5-porters.
For  example:

  $ ./Configure -des -Dusedevel
  $ make && make test

=head2 Creating and sending the patch

Git can automatically create the patch email for perl5-porters:

  $ git format-patch origin

This creates a single '0001...' email message file.  If you have
configured your perl git repository for sending email direct to
perl5-porters, you can send it with this command:

  $ git send-email 0001-Updating-Module-Build-to-0.33_02.patch

=head1 Special tips

=head2 Configuring git to send email

In your ~/git/perl repository, set the destination email:

  $ git config sendemail.to perl5-porters@perl.org

You may need to set some configuration for your particular email/ISP setup.
For example, to set global git config to send email via a gmail account:

  $ git config --global sendemail.smtpserver smtp.gmail.com
  $ git config --global sendemail.smtpssl 1
  $ git config --global sendemail.smtpuser YOURUSERNAME@gmail.com

With this setup, you will be prompted for your gmail password when you
run 'git send-email'.

=head2 Fixing a branch and regenerating a patch

DANGER -- ADVANCED GIT HERE

If something breaks in the test or after committing you realize you need to
tweak the branch, you can go ahead and make changes and commit them to the
branch as normal.

Then, before regenerating the patch, squash them into a single patch using
interactive rebase:

  $ git rebase -i origin

In the editor, you will have the option to choose how commits are rebased.
Leave the first entry as 'pick' and make all subsequent entries 'squash'.  
After you leave the editor, a new editor window will open and you will have
the opportunity to combine all commit messages.  Generally, you'll want to keep
the initial Changes list and just delete the other commit messages.

Afterwards, regenerate and send the patch as described above.

=cut

